What is Pharmacogenomic Test*? Pharmacogenomic test is a non-diagnostic test. Non-invasive DNA test to investigate drug-gene interaction of 160+ drugs. By taking this test, you are able to: • Personalized your medication based on your genetics profile • Avoid adverse drug reaction (ADR)** • Increase drug efficacy and maximize therapeutic effect • Plan out preventive actions, because this test is valid for your whole life • Consult with medical doctor on the type of medication and dosage that fits your genetic profile *: Pharmacogenomic test is a non-diagnostic test ** : About 70% of ADR incidence are related with patient’s genetics profile. Non-invasive DNA test to investigate drug-gene interaction of drugs within the same drug classes. In particular for patients with heart condition, breast cancern, etc.
How Does Pharmacogenomic Test Work? • Genes are the body’s blueprint to construct enzymes. Enzymes metabolizes drugs inside the body. • Genes varies from person to person. An identical twin may carry different gene variant from the other twin. • Pharmacogenomic test investigates the gene variants and its impact in drug metabolism inside the body. • 4 genes are tested: CYP2C9, CYP2D6 CYP2C19 SLCO1B1  • Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) is the term used to describe the difference in our genetic code which is the cause of gene variance between individuals. • Our system curates and summarizes clinical recommendations published by experts, regulatory bodies and other trusted resources. • PGx Medical Societies: expert consortia related with Pharmacogenomics • Regulatory Bodies: regulatory bodies related with Pharmacogenomics
How to go through the informed consent form with patient? Informed Consent Form. Fill in the blank with the name of the test ordered.The physician needs to go through with the patient the content of the informed consent form and make sure the patient understands it. For Informed Consent Selection: The options must be explained to the patients. If patient select the 1st or 2nd option in Q13, Q23 needs to be filled in (Tissue banking). Missing / ambiguous selection may result in delays in reporting. For signatures: Fill in all fields and sign accordingly. If the patient is a minor or requires a guardian, the guardian must also sign and provide the relevant contact details. Missing details will result in delays in reporting.
How to fill in the informed consent form? Informed Consent Form. Fill in the blank with the name of the test ordered.The physician needs to go through with the patient the content of the informed consent form and make sure the patient understands it. For Informed Consent Selection: The options must be explained to the patients. If patient select the 1st or 2nd option in Q13, Q23 needs to be filled in (Tissue banking). Missing / ambiguous selection may result in delays in reporting. For signatures: Fill in all fields and sign accordingly. If the patient is a minor or requires a guardian, the guardian must also sign and provide the relevant contact details. Missing details will result in delays in reporting.
What are important things to note before taking the buccal swab? 1. Fasting for at least 30 minutes prior to taking the sample (do not eat, do not drink, do not gurgle, do not brush tooth, do not smoke)
What to take note of before doing buccal swab? 1. Fasting for at least 30 minutes prior to taking the sample (do not eat, do not drink, do not gurgle, do not brush tooth, do not smoke)
How does buccal swab collection work? 1. Fasting for at least 30 minutes prior to taking the sample (do not eat, do not drink, do not gurgle, do not brush tooth, do not smoke) 2. Open the plastic containing buccal swab carefully (not touching the head of the swab) 3. Swab each side of your mouth,15 seconds on left cheek, 15 seconds on right cheek, 15 seconds on upper lips, 15 seconds on lower lips. Use medium pressure (not too hard) using up-down movement and left-right movement. Head of the swab not touching the gum or teeth. 4. Place the buccal swab stick inside the tube and close tightly. 5. Flip the tube upside down slowly (15-20x) until the head of the swab is fully covered by the liquid. 6. Place the buccal swab tube inside the biohazard bag.
How to take a good buccal swab? 1. Fasting for at least 30 minutes prior to taking the sample (do not eat, do not drink, do not gurgle, do not brush tooth, do not smoke) 2. Open the plastic containing buccal swab carefully (not touching the head of the swab) 3. Swab each side of your mouth,15 seconds on left cheek, 15 seconds on right cheek, 15 seconds on upper lips, 15 seconds on lower lips. Use medium pressure (not too hard) using up-down movement and left-right movement. Head of the swab not touching the gum or teeth. 4. Place the buccal swab stick inside the tube and close tightly. 5. Flip the tube upside down slowly (15-20x) until the head of the swab is fully covered by the liquid. 6. Place the buccal swab tube inside the biohazard bag.
When will the test result be out? Pharmacogenomic Test: within 5 working days after the sample is received by our lab Nutrigenetic Test: 4-6 working weeks after the sample is received by our lab Patient are to reach their medical provider to coordinate on sample delivery and counselling session for review of test results.
How long will it take for the results to be out? Pharmacogenomic Test: within 5 working days after the sample is received by our lab Nutrigenetic Test: 4-6 working weeks after the sample is received by our lab Patient are to reach their medical provider to coordinate on sample delivery and counselling session for review of test results.
What is nalagenetics contact? Contact Us (Singapore) +65 6718 4730 sglab@nalagenetics.com
Where can my patient submit feedback about the test? For feedback, link is bit.ly/nalafeedbackform