What is Pharmacogenomic Test*? Non-invasive DNA test to investigate drug-gene interaction of 160+ drugs. By taking this test, you are able to: • Personalized your medication based on your genetics profile • Avoid adverse drug reaction (ADR)** • Increase drug efficacy and maximize therapeutic effect • Plan out preventive actions, because this test is valid for your whole life • Consult with medical doctor on the type of medication and dosage that fits your genetic profile *: Pharmacogenomic test is a non-diagnostic test ** : About 70% of ADR incidence are related with patient’s genetics profile
What is Pharmacogenomic Test*? Non-invasive DNA test to investigate drug-gene interaction of drugs within the same drug classes. In particular for patients with heart condition, breast cancern, etc.
*: Pharmacogenomic test is a non-diagnostic test
How Does Pharmacogenomic Test Work? • Genes are the body’s blueprint to construct enzymes. Enzymes metabolizes drugs inside the body. • Genes varies from person to person. An identical twin may carry different gene variant from the other twin. • Pharmacogenomic test investigates the gene variants and its impact in drug metabolism inside the body. • 4 genes are tested: CYP2C9, CYP2D6 CYP2C19 SLCO1B1
How Does Pharmacogenomic Test Work? • Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) is the term used to describe the difference in our genetic code which is the cause of gene variance between individuals. • Our system curates and summarizes clinical recommendations published by experts, regulatory bodies and other trusted resources.
How Does Pharmacogenomic Test Work? • PGx Medical Societies: expert consortia related with Pharmacogenomics • Regulatory Bodies: regulatory bodies related with Pharmacogenomics
Pharmacogenomic Test Result • Our report shows your genetic variants and the enzyme’s metabolic performance Poor metabolizer (PM) Intermediate metabolizer (IM) Normal metabolizer (NM) Ultrarapid metabolizer (PM) • Each enzyme variant will have different recommendation for the different types of drugs
Disclaimer • Genetic test results are not for diagnosis purpose. • Genetic test recommendations are not substitute for health professional’s recommendation. • You are encouraged to always consult with health professionals before changing your dosage or prescriptions. • Our medication list includes medications with more evidence of genetic correlation. There are medications with less evidence of genetic correlation, these medications are not included in the list. • The medication list and recommendations might change with updates on the knowledge in the future.
Sample Taking Kit Completeness: 1) ORDER FORM & CONSENT FORM 2) BUCCAL SWAB 3) BIOHAZARD BAG
Test Request Form. Patient Detail Label Make sure all fields are filled, especially patient full name and NRIC, to avoid delays in reporting. 
Sample ID. 16-digit barcode on specimen tube. Must be replicated on the form. Sample ID & Patient Label must match between the tube and form.Test Request Form
Reason for Ordering the Test. Select reason for ordering the test. Specify the reason if it’s not in the list above.
Relevant Clinical Information State any relevant clinical information(diagnosis / history / transplant date). State “NA” or “NIL” if there is no information
Test Request Form. Declaration by Ordering Physician: All ﬁelds must be ﬁlled in. Physician’s stamp/chop can be used here if it contains all the information mentioned. Samples with missing physician’s signature and/or incomplete declaration will be put on hold and TAT will be delayed.
Specimen Details. All fields must be filled in. Clinic’s stamp/chop can be used here if it contains all the information mentioned. Remind patient to not consume any food/drink besides water 30 minutes before specimen collection).
Test Request Form. Previous & Current Medications: Fill in if information is available. Please state “NA” or “NIL” if the information is not available / patient does not wish to disclose / can’t recall this information. Do not leave any blank ﬁeld in the forms.
Test Order.Select the test order unambiguously. If “Other panel” is selected, please fill in theblank to specify the panel ordered. Missing / ambiguous test selection may result in delays in reporting.Informed Consent Form
Informed Consent Form. Fill in the blank with the name of the test ordered.The physician needs to go through with the patient the content of the ICF and make sure the patient understands it.
Informed Consent Form. Informed Consent Selection: The options must be explained to the patients. If patient select the 1st or 2nd option in Q13, Q23 needs to be filled in (Tissue banking). Missing / ambiguous selection may result in delays in reporting.
Informed Consent Form. Signatures: Fill in all fields and sign accordingly. If the patient is a minor or requires a guardian, the guardian must also sign and provide the relevant contact details. Missing details will result in delays in reporting.
1. Fasting for at least 30 minutes prior to taking the sample (do not eat, do not drink, do not gurgle, do not brush tooth, do not smoke) 2. Open the plastic containing buccal swab carefully (not touching the head of the swab) 3. ⏰ Swab each side of your mouth,15 seconds on left cheek, 15 seconds on right cheek, 15 seconds on upper lips, 15 seconds on lower lips. ⚠ Use medium pressure (not too hard) using up-down movement dan left-right movement 🦷🦷 Head of the swab not touching the gum or teeth 4. Place the buccal swab stick inside the tube and close tightly 5. Flip the tube upside down slowly (15-20x) until the head of the swab is fullu covered by the liquid 6. Place the buccal swab tube inside the biohazard bag.
Closing Remarks.  Pharmacogenomic Test: within 5 working days after the sample is received by our lab  Nutrigenetic Test: 4-6 working weeks after the sample is received by our lab  Please reach your medical provider to coordinate on sample delivery and counselling session
Contact Us (Singapore) +65 6718 4730 sglab@nalagenetics.com For feedback, bit.ly/nalafeedbackform or SCAN:
